---
title: Research Statement
collection: research
permalink: "/research/reserarch-statement"
---

My research focuses on welfare state in advanced industrialized societies, party politics, public policy, and political economy.

My dissertation studies the party politics behind South Korea’s recent family policy development. Nordic countries developed comprehensive family policies with other welfare state such as pensions while other countries were laggards in terms of family policy. Continental countries and East Asian countries followed suit only in the early 2000s. South Korea presents an especially counter-intuitive case because its overall welfare state is still laggard. Its social expenditure is just over ten percent of its GDP. However, its family policy development was a huge success as it now has one of the most advanced policies, especially in childcare. This counter-intuitive development caught many scholar’s attention. They argue that unions and social democracy no longer explain these new developments in the countries other than the Nordic ones. Female’s preference on policy changed and parties changed their policy following these preference changes. Scholars adopt this explanation to South Korean case. However, they got the story wrong. In South Korea, preference didn’t change before the policy change and parties were not merely following the preference change. I argue that parties were very active in creating new issue and mobilizing voters around it. Their strategies changed people’s preferences and not the other way around. Media played a mediating role between party and public opinion. I analyze this link between public opinion and party strategy, where party strategy leads rather than follows public opinion, and the role media and elections play in mediating the two.
